From the information we are given we know that the number of visitors to Happy Hat stores have remained the same and yet there has been reduction in revenues and profitability. Since these two functions have different metrics associated with them we will deal with them separately. 
To find out what has caused the fall in revenues we will need to identify whether Happy Hat's visitors have been reducing the number of transactions (average transactions for a period of time such as a year) or whether they have reduced the amount per transaction. Both of these metrics can be calculated from the Point of Sale data that Happy Hat provides. 
	Profitability seems to be a bigger concern for Happy Hat and so I would recommend tracking which of the items are sold out the fastest to be the one metric that would help them out score their competition. This would require looking at their POS data and identifying the interval at which all of their items are being sold and then replinishing their fastest selling items the most quickly while reducing the number of allotted resources assigned to their more slowly selling items. This of course may require changes across the board if the fastest selling items may be the ones that take longest to produce and hence are the slowest to reach the stores. So the number of units of the fastest selling item that we require would be equal to how many are sold in the amount of time it takes to make them, means if it takes 10 days to make the item, we need to be able to stock up enough of the item to be able to accommodate demand for 10 days. 





The amount per transaction may be falling either due to customers opting for cheaper products offered by Happy Hat or fewer products, instances of both of these can be identified using "amount per transaction" and "items per transaction" metrics. To summarize I will be looking at the following metrics to identify reasons for falling revenues:
1. Average number of transactions per year.
2. Amount per transaction.(total sales/number of transactions)
3. Items per transaction.(total items sold/number of transactions)
Increasing average number of transactions per year requires data on why the transactions reduced, this as the problem statement indicates could be because of bad inventory management where Happy Hat stocks up on items that may not have demand while ignoring items that may be what consumers want. This may be corrected by making a note on the number of times a customer turns away from a store due to non-availability of her preferred commodity. The fall in amount/items per transaction could be arrested by offering discount schemes such as buy 2 get 1 as these incentivize the customer to buy more items (the metric to calculate the give-aways would depend on how much of a margin Happy Hat gains on giving out 3 items for the price of 2 if this isn't feasable a targetted incentivization scheme will be required). Targetted incentivization of customers could be achieved by organizing a loyalty program that rewards repeat customers. This would track customers by their mobile numbers or any other non-intrusive identifier. This loyalty program may also double up as a way to conduct a referral program which rewards customers for every new customer they bring in (new customer is someone who isn't available on the loyalty record yet) thus increasing revenues by increasing footfall. 
	


